[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We know now that
the structural center
of the Sonnets is April 23rd.
So in order for
Shakespeare's birthday
to land precisely
in the center, it
had to be specifically chosen to
be that day, which just happens
to be St. George's
Day, the slayer
of the dragon of delusion.
Given this precise
planning, one would
expect the center
sonnet number 113
to be very British
and patriotic.
But, no, it's celebrating
Egypt's most central
religious myth,
the eye of Horus.
"Since I left you, mine eye is
in my mind, is partly blind.
Seems seeing, but
effectually is out."
Horus is depicted as a falcon,
the world's fastest bird who
can see his prey
a mile away, thus
he's represented by the
single all-seeing eye of God.
But, of course, he
has two eyes, the sun
and the moon inherited
from his father Osiris,
the god of the afterlife
associated with the sun,
and his mother Isis, the
virgin queen goddess associated
with the moon.
Osiris' brother Set is the
god of chaos and disorder.
He represents the concept of
Maya, the magic trick that
divides unity consciousness
into an infinity of seemingly
separate entities.
That would be us.
He kills Osiris to
usurp his throne,
to gain dominion over creation
by cutting him into 14 pieces,
but he's really
just doing his job,
dividing the one
into many, fractals
of the unity who
as a consequence
think we're all different.
It's the only way
the universe can
have a drama is if our divine
eye is temporarily blinded
and we see with two eyes of
earthly vision, seems seeing,
but a true sight
effectually is out.
Horus' destiny is to
do battle with Set
and avenge his father's murder.
But it's actually the destiny
of each and every one of us
to overcome the delusion
of Maya, slay the dragon.
In one of the
contests between them,
Set plucks out Horus'
left eye, the moon,
reducing his sight even more.
This is why the Shakespeare
engraving has two right eyes.
I suspect you're
beginning to see
by now, the broad mixture
of cultural and religious
iconography that
Shakespeare draws on
for dramatic purposes-- pagan,
Jewish, Catholic, Protestant,
Egyptian.
It's his way of saying, as
he does in "Twelfth Night,"
it's all one.
He's never advocating for any
one belief system over another.
He deals in miracles,
and no religion
has a monopoly on those.
They're just manifestations
of the one universal truth.
When Emperor Constantine
beheld his miraculous vision
of the symbol known as
the Chi Rho Cristogram,
he saw the first two Greek
letters of the name Christ
in a spear forming
the X and Rho.
Rho is the Greek letter R, but
it looks like a long-stemmed P.
Another version called the
Tau Rho uses a Tau cross
T in place of the
Chi cross X just
like Dee and de Vere favor.
Either side of the
cross, Constantine
saw the Greek letters
Alpha and Omega
representing Christ's words I am
the beginning and the end whose
English equivalents are A and O.
The whole symbol ultimately
represents the divine unity
of the one, the eye,
the missing eye.
All together, a perfect anagram
of Horatio, Hamlet's most loyal
and trusted friend.
There are more things in
heaven and Earth, Horatio,
and are dreamed of
in your philosophy.
I am by no means
the first to see
that the author is
telling his own story
through the dramatic
lens of Prince Hamlet.
But most scholars have missed
the Egyptian mystery school
connections to
Freemasonic philosophy.
The Shakespeare equation
revealed the speed of light
and the average distances of
Earth to sun and Earth to moon.
I didn't fully
realize it until 2020,
but it's a
macro-cosmic reflection
of the micro-cosmic Horus myth
of left eye moon, right eye
sun, third eye light.
It's all part of the puzzle
Shakespeare has left for us.
Indeed, when Hamlet says
the undiscovered country
from whose bourn no traveler
returns puzzles the will,
he really means revolve.
Will's the puzzle.
The Horus myth is essentially
the story of Hamlet.
In Shakespeare's version,
Prince Hamlet is Horus,
King Hamlet's ghost is Osiris.
Queen Gertrude is Isis.
The prince's uncle Claudius
is Set, the usurping brother
who kills King Hamlet
to become King Claudius.
But did you know that in
the late Egyptian period,
Set was depicted as a man
wearing a donkey's head mask.
So in Shakespeare's fairyland
play "A Midsummer Night's
Dream," Set is
actually the good guy,
bottom starting to
awaken from the delusion
of his dream of
separate existence
into his true divine nature.
In "Hamlet," the many Horus-Set
battles are all condensed down
into one final sword fight,
and it's very telling
that there are
two characters who
don't appear in any of
the source materials
Shakespeare used for this play.
One is Hamlet's challenger
in the duel, Laertes.
The other is the referee
of the contest, Osric.
Their names are totally
made-up by the poet
to help us truly get his
autobiographical play
within the play.
He's telling us Horus equals
Hamlet equals Oxford equals
Shakespeare.
Osric shows up out of nowhere
just for this last scene.
Why?
Because his name is
an anagram of Rosi
C, an abbreviation
of Rosi Cross.
And using only the
letters of Rosi,
we can make Osiris or Isis.
As for Laertes, he's
a proxy for Claudius.
Set, who's using a poisoned
rapier to murder Hamlet.
His name is an
anagram of Real Set.
And Shakespeare has
him ritually kill
the real king,
the truly mad King
Lear, who just like
the Earl King of Oxford
had three daughters,
one of whom he disowned.
It's a puzzle, folks.
Come on, the Hamlet
Horus Oxford king.
And Shakespeare can't
let it go, and he
has to kill everybody
off this time except--
except Osric.
The Rosicrucian
truth must survive.
And Horatio, the Tau Rho truth
that we are all the divine eye,
that must survive, too.
One other character
we've hardly seen at all
but who is given the
last lines of the play
because he gets to
be the new king,
he's another
completely made up name
for the puzzle,
Fortinbras, a firstborn.
So you see the master poet
is equating the Horus myth
with the Saint George myth.
Both are defeating Maya, Set, by
slaying the dragon of delusion.
But the most telling
metaphor by far
is that if Oxford is Hamlet and
Hamlet is Horus and Horus is
the child of Isis, a virgin
queen associated with the moon,
well, I'm just saying.
But to make total
sense of this, we're
going to need to examine
one sentence spoken
by Polonius in
"Hamlet," and there
are a couple of clues we
need to understand first.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
One of them is the
actual signature
that Edward de Vere used
for most of his life.
Here are two examples of it.
Notice the first letter
of his first name
is connected to the last
letter of his last name.
The last letter
of his first name
is connected through
this strange symbol
to the first letter
of his last name
reminiscent of the revolved
Hebrew alphabet code
that started us off
on this whole journey.
The first shall be last.
So what is this?
It looks like two
W's joined together.
However, some Oxfordians
believe it represents a crown
and that he's hinting
he's the true king.
Stratfordians say, no, no.
It's just a coronet.
What's the difference?
I'm glad you asked.
Coronets are reserved for
certain ranks of nobility--
earls, lords, and ladies--
and, of course, Lord de Vere,
the 17th Earl certainly
fits into that category.
Crowns are symbols of monarchy
reserved for kings, queens,
and princes.
For example, the last Tudor
king, young Edward VI,
but there's an
important distinction.
Coronets have points
or many ornaments
attached to the gold headpiece.
Crowns have arches connecting
the ornaments which
coronets specifically do not.
But there's one
exception to this rule.
The heir apparent can wear or
display a coronet with one arch
only across the middle.
I'm just saying.
But there's more.
How many slashes are there
across this joining line?
Edward VI?
Uh oh.
Edward VII.
It's hard to argue that he's
saying anything other than he's
King Edward VII.
But, again, it's this
redundancy, the same message
over and over, that makes
the odds of probability
of these clues being random
coincidences essentially zero.
For example, secret
letters passed
between King James of Scotland
and Elizabeth's secretary
of state Robert Cecil
reveal the code numbers
of several high-ranking
members of Elizabeth's court.
Robert Cecil's was 10.
King James' was 30.
Oxford's number was 40.
At the very top of page
40 of the "First Folio,"
there's a scene where
King Richard II is being
forced to surrender his crown.
When asked if he's ready
to do so, Richard says I--
no, no.
I-- for I must nothing be.
It sounds like he's undecided.
Yes, no, no, yes, but seen
as numbers this is 1-0-0-1,
Cecil's code number 10
reversed against itself.
He continues therefore, no,
no, for I resigned to thee,
but that's 4-0-0-4, Oxford's
code number reversed against
itself.
Robert Cecil, the true
power in real life plotting
to put King James of Scotland on
the English throne thus denying
Oxford, who is clearly
saying he's the true heir.
Once, again, the real
play within the play.
By reversing these code
numbers, Shakespeare
is saying if you're
going to negate me,
Cecil, force me to give up my
crown, I'm going to negate you.
1-0 becomes 0-1.
History is going to know the
truth through the hidden codes
I'm placing in these works.
Carrying on, he says mark
me how I will undo myself,
and for the next 17 lines,
he lists all the ritual
acts of a monarch's coronation
ceremony but in reverse.
And at the end of the speech
at the very bottom of page 40,
he says command the
mirror here straight.
Just in case we didn't get
the clue, mirror imagery.
So now we're ready
to fully understand
Polonius' big clue where he says
I will find where truth is hid
though it were hid
indeed within the center.
Look at all the
capitalized letters--
P-T, the Tau Rho, the
iconic Cristogram symbol
that hides Horatio's name.
C, the Roman numeral for 100.
CI, Roman numeral for 101.
These are the absolute center
pages of the "First Folio"
and here's what's
called the catchword.
It's a printing device used to
aid the compositors in putting
the pages together correctly.
The word at the top
of the next page
is also the printed word at the
bottom of the preceding page.
If they don't
match, the printers
know the pages are out of order.
So the catchwords are
at the very center--
Ore and then Ore.
This is the Latin word for
mouth but, again, revolve them,
and we get ero, ero, Latin
for I will be what I will be,
the future tense name of God.
But, of course, it's
also saying very
subtly I will be
the mouth of God,
exactly what his pen
name anagram is saying,
I am Asher Will Speake.
Since the speech itself
is about the center,
we can be sure Dee has left
something significant there as
usual, and indeed there
are two center sections,
each containing
their own solution
but each dependent on
recognizing the other.
It's diffused colored
paints mixed together again.
Named T is the first one.
It's something whose name
is holy, the T, cross,
or maybe the altar.
But like his master code
in the Enochian tables,
there's an embedded
trapdoor in it
that will only make
sense when connected
to the second solution
here, and that's
trifle, which can't really be
solved until we dig deeper.
So let's look at the grid.
First, we see the de Vere cross.
Then this starts as a
perfect South-West isle
cross, which we saw previously.
But it goes further, the
West-South-West aisle, hill.
How perfect.
Richard Hill's tomb is there.
But if we close this box
shape up properly, what's U-M?
It makes the word
hilum, which is
Latin for trifle, the word
hidden in the second center.
So you ask.
Well, if "Hamlet" is the
play nearest to Oxford's
autobiography, "The Tempest,"
is nearest to that of John Dee,
and it's the one
time Shakespeare
uses trifle Latin, hilum,
in its archaic sense meaning
a fiction, an illusion, a trick.
It says, or some enchanted
trifle to abuse me.
How brilliant.
It contains the name
Hill but is telling us
that Hill's tomb is
an illusion, a trick.
Set, right?
It's even shaped like a
double box with the letters
H&E a Hebrew word
for God within.
There's more.
The He and the T-H combine
to give the Hebrew letter
Heth, which means enclosure.
And as we all know,
the Hebrew alphabet
was originally developed
from the Phoenicians.
Take a deep breath because
here's the original Phoenician
version of the letter Heth.
Precisely the same shape--
Hilum, trifle, named, T,
gives us the physical location
under Richard Hill's tomb where
we will find the altar stone
or reversed find Will.
And, of course, as usual
it's signed by Dee.
Don't forget this was coded
400 years ago as a pointer
to let initiates know where they
could find the missing altar
stone at a later time when it
would be safe for the truth
to come out, but nobody looked.
And now the stone has
been found and returned
to its Holy of Holies
location, and we
have the scientific
proof in the scan.
An extension of the math
that he's determined
will prove the
codes to be genuine.
But still it didn't
stop him trying his best
to leave poetic proofs as well.
For instance, in the very last
sonnet, he writes this by that,
I prove.
And in the poem that ends
the overall sequence,
"A Lover's Complaint,"
there's an acrostic
of o, o, o, o, mimicking
Edward de Vere's code number
four O's, 40.
So how is he going to
prove this by that?
By making the very last
line of the Sonnets
plus the Latin finis, which
means the end, by turning that
into an anagram, he
reveals this truth.
Love's fire heats water.
Water cools, not love.
Finis becomes altar stone solves
the final secret of WW 10,01
signed E Vere.
In "A Lover's Complaint,"
he writes the fore-betrayed.
To betray means to
reveal but treacherously
what was previously revealed in
the former sonnet code, which
he's saying would have been
called treachery at the time.
So, again, the very
last line of the poem
plus the Latin finis for
the end gives an anagram
that reveals from these
words and new pervert
a reconciled Maide finis,
it becomes in fine-- that's
another way of saying
finis-- in the end,
print conceals I
am Edward de Vere.
Could it be any clearer?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> As Dee and de Vere compound
proofs on top of proofs,
the scope of their
system broadens,
revealing more and more
precise interconnections that
ultimately confirm a
30-year master plan,
but their magnum opus connects
more than just the known works
of Shakespeare.
In the next episode,
you're about to see proof
that these Rosicrucian
masters played
a huge role in translating
the King James Bible.